[The Code Im Ashamed Of](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e/)

"As developers, we are often one of the last lines of defense against potentially dangerous and unethical practices." This quote really hit me. I never put into perspective whether or not what I was doing was ethical. I guess I chalked it up to what i am coding is going to be so unbelievably minuscule and unimportant that it doesn't really matter what I do. But the fact of it is, It DOES matter. My readings into cybersecurity and becoming an ethical hacker or white hat have really opened up my eyes to this too. Being a competent software engineer in todays age is like having superpowers. And unfortunately not too many people realize the immense moral and ethical obligations we have to the people consuming our code. We can make applications that have helpful or detrimental outcomes to society. After reading this article I think the most important part of learning to code is staying true to your moral compass.

[Self Driving Car Ethics](https://www.freep.com/story/money/cars/2017/11/21/self-driving-cars-ethics/804805001/)

This article is really interesting, and I think my outlook on the dilemma could be a bit grim but has some basis to stand on. If the situation can be avoided ie death count = 0 that option MUST be taken. But in the case of the trolley problem I believe that influencing what will happen is wrong. I dont think you should ever pull the lever unless the death count will equal 0. I dont believe in the utilitarian solution either. ESPECIALLY pushing someone onto the tracks to save everyone. In the case where you have the ability to influence the outcome, and make the call to kill someone based on their character (old, drug addict, kid, baby, criminal, doctor, man, woman, etc) is a slippery slope. My philosophy is simple, dont influence unless you are a hero and nobody dies. I also believe everyone who mindfully walks on the tracks is aware of the danger.

[Back To Homepage](https://leethomas13.github.io/201-reading-notes/)